.TH GIT-AI-COMMIT 1 "July 2026" "git-ai-commit" "Git Manual"
.SH NAME
git-ai-commit \- AI-assisted Git commit planning and application
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git ai-commit
.RB [ --full ]
.br
.B git ai-commit apply
.RB [ --dry-run ]
.RB [ --reviewed ]
.br
.B git ai-commit message
.RI [ provider ]
.RB [ --full ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
With no subcommand,
.B git ai-commit
asks the configured AI model for a read-only commit plan and stores it inside
.IR .git/ai-commit-plan.json .
It does not stage, commit, or push.
.PP
.B git ai-commit apply
verifies the saved repository fingerprint and exact staged paths before creating
each local commit. It never pushes.
.SH WORKFLOW
.TP
.B git ai-commit
Generate and save a compact plan. This calls the configured model.
.TP
.B git ai-commit apply --dry-run
Show the saved commits and warnings without a model call or Git write.
.TP
.B git ai-commit apply
Apply a warning-free saved plan.
.TP
.B git ai-commit apply --reviewed
Apply a saved plan after its displayed warnings have been reviewed.
.TP
.B git ai-commit message agy
Generate only a message for the currently staged change.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --full
Send more tracked diff context to the model.
.TP
.B --dry-run
Validate and display the cached plan and warnings without staging or committing.
.TP
.B --reviewed
Confirm that the displayed warnings were reviewed before applying the plan.
.SH SAFETY
Plans with warnings are blocked unless
.B --reviewed
is specified. A changed worktree fingerprint, an unexpected staged path, or a
commit failure stops execution. Push is always a separate user action.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git (1),
.BR git-commit (1)
